Updated glossary (#453)
spatialos/UnrealGDK: SpatialGDK/Documentation/content/glossary.md

> # Glossary

Reviewer: Can we add a TOC, using an Improbadoc macro? I believe it wouldn't render properly on GitHub but it would be really useful for those viewing the page on the main docs site.

`<%(TOC)%>`

This glossary covers:
* Terms used in this documentation
* Terms relevant to the GDK for Unreal
* SpatialOS terms used in the GDK for Unreal documentation

**SpatialOS documentation**<br/>

> Many SpatialOS term definitions link to further information in the [SpatialOS documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/index). This documentation covers the SpatialOS SDK - a software development kit for SpatialOS which underpins the GDK for Unreal, as well some GDK-relevant tools; the [Console](#console), [schema](#schema), [snapshots](#snapshots), and [configuration files](#configuration files) in particular.

Reviewer 2: ` [configuration files](#configuration files)` link is borked
` [configuration files](#configuration-files)` probably.

> Many SpatialOS term definitions link to further information in the [SpatialOS documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/index). This documentation covers the SpatialOS SDK - a software development kit for SpatialOS which underpins the GDK for Unreal, as well some GDK-relevant tools; the [Console](#console), [schema](#schema), [snapshots](#snapshots), and [configuration files](#configuration files) in particular.

Reviewer 2: `SpatialOS SDK` scares me. Are we sure about saying that.

Author: I know I felt the same at first. Loaded term

> Many SpatialOS term definitions link to further information in the [SpatialOS documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/index). This documentation covers the SpatialOS SDK - a software development kit for SpatialOS which underpins the GDK for Unreal, as well some GDK-relevant tools; the [Console](#console), [schema](#schema), [snapshots](#snapshots), and [configuration files](#configuration-files) in particular.

Reviewer: I agree that we should try to avoid "SpatialOS SDK" here, as it's not a term we really use anywhere else (yet). Plus, we then go on to talk about the "SpatialOS SDKs" (plural) - i.e. the Worker SDK and Platform SDK - which makes it more confusing.

Maybe leave out "SpatialOS SDK" and just mention the Worker and Platform SDKs?

```suggestion
Many SpatialOS term definitions link to further information in the [SpatialOS documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/index). This documentation covers the SpatialOS Worker SDK and Platform SDK, as well some GDK-relevant tools; the [Console](#console), [schema](#schema), [snapshots](#snapshots), and [configuration files](#configuration-files) in particular.
```

> Note that this SpatialOS documentation assumes you are developing a SpatialOS game using the SpatialOS SDKs ([The Worker SDK and Platform SDK](#https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/get-started/working-with-spatialos)), so it may reference content relevant to that workflow only. While the SpatialOS SDK underpins the GDK for Unreal, the two workflows are not always the same.

Reviewer: Had a go at making this clearer:

```suggestion
Note that this SpatialOS documentation assumes you are developing a SpatialOS game using the ([Worker SDK and Platform SDK](#https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/get-started/working-with-spatialos)), so it may reference content relevant to that workflow only. While some of the concepts underpin the GDK for Unreal, the two workflows are not always the same.
```

## GDK for Unreal documentation terms

> * `<ProjectRoot>` - The root folder of your Unreal game project.  

Reviewer 2: In the porting guide myself and @improbable-valentyn decided that the `root` idea of a project was bad. We assume users will have a folder above their game project which isn't standard in Unreal.

I updated the terms to:
```
`<GameRoot>` - The folder containing your game project's `.uproject` and source folder.  
`<ProjectRoot>` - The folder containing your `<GameRoot>`.  
`<YourProject>` - Name of your game project's `.uproject` (for example, `\<GameRoot>\StarterProject.uproject`).
```

> * `<GameRoot>` - The folder containing your game project's `.uproject` and source folder.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `<GameRoot>` - The folder containing your project's `.uproject` and source folder.  
```
@ElleEss I think we decided to go back to just "project" but LMK if it's changed since then

* `<ProjectRoot>` - The folder containing your `<GameRoot>`.  

> * `<YourProject>` - Name of your game project's `.uproject` (for example, `\<GameRoot>\StarterProject.uproject`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `<YourProject>` - Name of your project's `.uproject` (for example, `\<GameRoot>\StarterProject.uproject`).
```

## GDK for Unreal terms

### Actor handover

> Handover is a new `UPROPERTY` tag. It allows games built in Unreal which uses single-server architecture to take advantage of SpatialOS’ distributed, persistent server architecture. See [Actor and entity property handover between server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/handover-between-server-workers.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handover is a new `UPROPERTY` tag. It allows games built in Unreal which use single-server architecture to take advantage of SpatialOS’ distributed, persistent server architecture. See [Actor and entity property handover between server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/handover-between-server-workers.md).
```

(Assuming that "games" is the subject of the "which", rather than "Unreal" being the subject of "which", and so "use" should agree with "games".)

> Handover is a new `UPROPERTY` tag. It allows games built in Unreal which uses single-server architecture to take advantage of SpatialOS’ distributed, persistent server architecture. See [Actor and entity property handover between server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/handover-between-server-workers.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handover is a new `UPROPERTY` tag. It allows games built in Unreal (which uses single-server architecture) to take advantage of SpatialOS’ distributed, persistent server architecture. See [Actor and entity property handover between server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/handover-between-server-workers.md).
```

Added brackets to clarify that "Unreal" is the subject of "which". I originally read "games" as the subject, which meant it read: "games... which uses"

### Cross-server RPCs

> This handles the scenario where a [server-worker](#workers) needs to execute an operation on an Actor that another server-worker has [authority](#authority) over. When a cross-server RPC is invoked by a non-authoritative server-worker, the execution is routed through SpatialOS to the authoritative server-worker - this authoritative server-worker executes the RPC. (See the documentation on [Cross-server RPCs]({{urlRoot}}/content/cross-server-rpcs)).

Reviewer: This handles -> These handle?

### Global State Manager
The Global State Manager (GSM):
*  Makes sure that [Singleton Actors](#singleton-actors) are replicated properly, by only allowing the [server-worker](#workers) with [authority](#authority) over the GSM to execute the initial replication of these Actors. See documentation on [Singleton Actors]({{urlRoot}}/content/singleton-actors.md).
*  Maintains the configuration of a [deployment’s](#deployment) currently-loaded [game world](#game-world). (Note that this is the Unreal game world not the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).)<br/> 

> The GSM lists both the URL of the [Map (or Level - see Unreal documentation)](http://api.unrealengine.com/INT/Shared/Glossary/index.html#l) that the [server-workers](#servers) have loaded and the `AcceptingPlayers` flag. (This flag controls whether or not client-servers can spawn anything in the game world.)

Reviewer: Add a line break above this line? Unless it's meant to be a separate bullet point, in which case do that instead.

>Related:
>
> [Server travel]({{urlRoot}}/content/map-travel.md) 

### GSM
Short for [Global State Manager](#global-state-manager).

### Schema Generator
An Unreal Editor toolbar command which takes a set of Unreal classes and generates SpatialOS [schema](#schema) that enables automatic communication between Unreal and SpatialOS. 

>Related:
>[The toolbar]({{urlRoot}}/content/toolbar)

### Singleton Actor
A server-side authoritative Actor that is restricted to one instantiation on SpatialOS. See documentation on [Singleton Actors]({{urlRoot}}/content/singleton-actors.md).

> ###Spatial Type

Reviewer 2: Space required after `###`

> Unreal classes have unique properties when running in SpatialOS. Spatial Type (`SpatialType`) is a SpatialOS-specific [class specifier (Unreal documentation)](https://docs.unrealengine.com/en-US/Programming/UnrealArchitecture/Reference/Classes/Specifiers) which reflects this information. There are different categories of Spatial Type, depending on the Actor’s function in your game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unreal classes have unique properties when running in SpatialOS. Spatial Type (`SpatialType`) is a SpatialOS-specific [class specifier (Unreal documentation)](https://docs.unrealengine.com/en-US/Programming/UnrealArchitecture/Reference/Classes/Specifiers) which reflects these properties. There are different categories of Spatial Type, depending on the Actor’s function in your game.
```

See the documentation on [Spatial Type](#{{urlRoot}}/content/spatial-type). 

> ###SpatialType

Reviewer 2: `Space required after ###`

See [Spatial Type](#spatial-type).

## SpatialOS terms
Below is a subset of SpatialOS terms most relevant to the GDK for Unreal. See the [SpatialOS documentation glossary](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary) for a full list of terms specific to SpatialOS.

> Note that this SpatialOS documentation glossary assumes you are developing a SpatialOS game using the SpatialOS SDKs ([The Worker SDK and Platform SDK](#https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/get-started/working-with-spatialos)),  so it may reference content relevant to that workflow only. While the SpatialOS SDK underpins the GDK for Unreal, the two workflows are not always the same.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this SpatialOS documentation glossary assumes you are developing a SpatialOS game using the [Worker SDK and Platform SDK](#https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/get-started/working-with-spatialos),  so it may reference content relevant to that workflow only. While some of the concepts underpin the GDK for Unreal, the two workflows are not always the same.
```

> Note that this SpatialOS documentation glossary assumes you are developing a SpatialOS game using the SpatialOS SDKs ([The Worker SDK and Platform SDK](#https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/get-started/working-with-spatialos)),  so it may reference content relevant to that workflow only. While the SpatialOS SDK underpins the GDK for Unreal, the two workflows are not always the same.)

Reviewer 2: Link in brackets has broken.

Reviewer 2: `,  so` double space

> Note that this SpatialOS documentation glossary assumes you are developing a SpatialOS game using the SpatialOS SDKs ([The Worker SDK and Platform SDK](#https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/get-started/working-with-spatialos)),  so it may reference content relevant to that workflow only. While the SpatialOS SDK underpins the GDK for Unreal, the two workflows are not always the same.)

Reviewer 2: This entire line is a duplicate of the one at the top of the doc.

When you run a [cloud deployment](#deployment), you have to specify an assembly to use.

### Authority
Also known as “write access”.
<br/>
<br/>
Write access:<br/>
Many [workers](#workers) can connect to a [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world). For each [component](#spatialos-component) on a [SpatialOS entity](#spatialos-entity), there can be no more than one worker with write access to it. This worker is the only one able to modify the component’s state and handle commands for it.
Workers with write access are said to “have authority” and be “authoritative”; workers without write access are said to be “non-authoritative”.
Which [types of workers](#worker-types) can have write access is governed by each entity’s [access control list (ACL)](#access-control-list-acl). This list specifies which worker actually has write access over an entity. The list is managed by SpatialOS, and can change regularly due to [load balancing (SpatialOS concept documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#load-balancing).
<br/>
<br/>

> Read access:<br/>

Reviewer: It feels like this should be its own separate glossary entry, rather than being under Authority.

> Read access allows [workers](#workers) to know the state of a [SpatialOS component](#spatialos-component)  The [access control list (ACL)](#access-control-list-acl) also controls which workers have read-access to a [SpatialOS entity](#spatialos-entity). Read access does not allow a worker to change a component. Read access is at the entity level; if a worker can read from an entity, it is allowed to read from all components on that entity. 

Reviewer 2: `Read access allows [workers](#workers) to know the state of a [SpatialOS component](#spatialos-component)  The [access control list (ACL)]` 
Missing full stop. :
`Read access allows [workers](#workers) to know the state of a [SpatialOS component](#spatialos-component). The [access control list (ACL)]`

* which types of workers have read access to an entity
* for each component on the entity, which types of workers can have write access
### Assembly
An assembly is what’s created when you build your project. It contains all the files that your game uses.
This includes executable files for the [client-workers](#workers) and [server-workers](#workers), and the assets these workers use (for example, textures used by a client to visualize the game).
When you run a [cloud deployment](#deployment), you have to specify an assembly to use.

### Authority
Also known as “write access”.
<br/>
<br/>
Write access:<br/>
Many [workers](#workers) can connect to a [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world). For each [component](#spatialos-component) on a [SpatialOS entity](#spatialos-entity), there can be no more than one worker with write access to it. This worker is the only one able to modify the component’s state and handle commands for it.
Workers with write access are said to “have authority” and be “authoritative”; workers without write access are said to be “non-authoritative”.

> Which [types of workers](#worker-types) can have write access is governed by each entity’s [access control list (ACL)](#access-control-list-acl). This list specifies which worker actually has write access over an entity. The list is managed by SpatialOS, and can change regularly due to [load balancing (SpatialOS concept documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#load-balancing).

Reviewer: Is it true that the ACL specifies which worker "actually has write access" over an entity? I thought it only specified which worker types _could_ have write access (but I don't know where the info is stored about which one _actually does_ have write access at any time).

Reviewer: Also I don't think it's true to say that the ACL can change regularly due to load balancing. I thought the ACL stayed constant, but the worker that _actually_ had write access can change regularly due to load balancing?

### Component
See [SpatialOS component](#spatialos-component).
### Configuration files
The configuration files contain information on how elements of your project must work. There are four configuration files:
* The [launch configuration file - `*.json`](#launch-configuration-file) contains the information that the “launch a deployment” commands use to use to  run a [deployment](#deployment).
* The [worker configuration file - `*.worker.json`](#worker-configuration-file) tells SpatialOS how to build, launch, and interact with [workers](#workers).
* The [project definition file - `spatialos.json`](#project-definition-file) 
* The [worker packages file - `spatialos_worker_packages.json`(SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/reference/file-formats/spatial-worker-packages)

### Command-line tool (CLI)
See [Spatial command-line tool (CLI)](#spatial-command-line-tool-cli).

### Deployment
When you want to try out your game, you need to deploy it. This means launching SpatialOS itself. SpatialOS sets up the [world](#spatialos-world) based on a [snapshot](#snapshot), then starts up the [server-workers](#server-workers) needed to run the world. 

> There are two types of deployment: local and cloud.

Reviewer: Add line break above this

Reviewer 2: They are there

> Local deployments allow you to start the SpatialOS [Runtime](#spatialos-runtime) locally to test changes quickly. Find out more about local deployments in the [SpatialOS documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/deploy/deploy-local.

Reviewer: Add line break above this

> As their name suggests, cloud deployments run in the cloud on [nodes](#node). They allow you to share your game with other people and run your game at a scale not possible on one local machine. Once a cloud deployment is running, you can connect [game clients](#game-client) to it using the [Launcher](#launcher).

Reviewer: Add line break above this

### Entity
See [SpatialOS entity](#spatialos-entity).
### Game client
Not to be confused with [client-worker](#workers).

> A game client is a binary file;  it’s an executable computer program that runs on a player’s computer. A player uses a game client to play your game.  A client-worker is an object instantiated by this executable program when it runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A game client is a binary file;  it’s an executable computer program that runs on a player’s computer. A player uses a game client to play your game. A client-worker is an object instantiated by this executable program when it runs.
```

### Game world
>Not to be confused with [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).

> Everything in your Unreal game that a player can see or interact with. 

Reviewer: Needs line break above (currently it's being pulled into the "Note" callout)

### Inspector
The Inspector is a web-based tool that you use to explore the internal state of a [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world). It gives you a real-time view of what’s happening in a [local or cloud deployment](#deployment). Among other things, it displays:

> which [workers](#workers) are connected to the deployment.

Reviewer: Each of these three things (this one, and the two below) should be a bullet point.

> which [workers](#workers) are connected to the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* which [workers](#workers) are connected to the deployment.
```

This should be a bullet point, as should the two below. I can't remember if this will also require an extra line break above to make this work.

> how much [load (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#load-balancing) the workers are under.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* how much [load (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#load-balancing) the workers are under.
```

> which [SpatialOS entitie](#spatialos-entities) are in the SpatialOS world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* which [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entities) are in the SpatialOS world.
```

### Entity
See [SpatialOS entity](#spatialos-entity).
### Game client
Not to be confused with [client-worker](#workers).
A game client is a binary file;  it’s an executable computer program that runs on a player’s computer. A player uses a game client to play your game.  A client-worker is an object instantiated by this executable program when it runs.
### Game world
>Not to be confused with [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).
Everything in your Unreal game that a player can see or interact with. 
### Inspector
The Inspector is a web-based tool that you use to explore the internal state of a [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world). It gives you a real-time view of what’s happening in a [local or cloud deployment](#deployment). Among other things, it displays:
* which [workers](#workers) are connected to the deployment.
* how much [load (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#load-balancing) the workers are under.

> * which [SpatialOS entitie](#spatialos-entities) are in the SpatialOS world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* which [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entities) are in the SpatialOS world.
```

* what their [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-components)’ [properties (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#property) are.
* which workers are authoritative over each SpatialOS component.
>Related:
>
>[The Inspector (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/operate/inspector)
### Interest
There are two types of interest: entity interest and component interest.

#### Entity interest
A [worker](#workers) is interested in all [chunks](#chunk) that contain [entities](#spatialos-entity) it has
[write access](#authority) to a [component](spatialos-componet) on. It's *also* interested in chunks within a configurable
radius of those entities: this makes sure that workers are aware of entities nearby. You can set this radius
in the [worker configuration file](#worker-configuration-file).

> If a worker is interested in a chunk, it will [check out](#check-out)all the entities in that chunk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a worker is interested in a chunk, it will [check out] (#check-out)all the entities in that chunk.
```

> If a worker is interested in a chunk, it will [check out](#check-out)all the entities in that chunk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a worker is interested in a chunk, it will [check out](#check-out) all the entities in that chunk.
```

#### Component interest
Each [worker](#workers), in its [worker configuration file](#worker-configuration-file), specifies which [components](#components) it is
interested in. SpatialOS only sends updates about components to a worker which is interested in that component.
> Related:
>
> * [Entity interest settings]({{urlRoot}}/shared/worker-configuration/bridge-config#entity-interest)
> * [Component delivery settings]({{urlRoot}}/shared/worker-configuration/bridge-config#component-delivery)

### Launch

> >Not to be confused with [the launcher](#launcher).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>Not to be confused with [the Launcher](#launcher).
```

> In SpatialOS, “launch” means start a game [deployment](#deployment). See also [launch configuration file](#launch-configuration-file).

Reviewer: Add line break above this to stop it getting pulled into the note callout.

### Launch configuration
The launch configuration is how you set up the start of your game’s [deployment](#deployment) (its launch). It is represented in the launch configuration file.
See [workers](#workers) and [launch configuration file](#launch-configuration-file).

### Launch configuration file

> The  [launch configuration file](#launch-configuration-file) is a `.json` file containing the information that the “launch a deployment” commands use to use to start a [deployment](#deployment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [launch configuration file](#launch-configuration-file) is a `.json` file containing the information that the “launch a deployment” commands use to start a [deployment](#deployment).
```

>Related:
>
>[Launch configuration file (SpatialOS documenation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/reference/file-formats/launch-config)

### Launcher
The Launcher is a tool that can download and start [game clients](#game-client) that connect to [cloud deployments](#deployment). It's available as an application for Windows and macOS. From the [Console](#console), you can use the Launcher to connect a game client to your own cloud deployment or generate a share link so anyone with the link can download a game client and join your game.
The Launcher downloads the client executable from the [SpatialOS assembly](#assembly) you uploaded.
> Related:
>

> > * [The Launcher (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/operate/launcher)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [The Launcher (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/operate/launcher)
```

### Load balancing
One of the features of SpatialOS is load balancing: dynamically adjusting how many [components](#spatialos-components) on [entities](#spatialos-entities) in the [world](#spatialos-world) each [worker](#workers) has [write access](#authority) to, so that workers don’t get overloaded.

> Load balancing only applies to [server-workers](#workers).

Reviewer: It looks like these were intended to be individual paragraphs, in which case they each need an extra line break.

When an instance of a worker is struggling with a high workload, SpatialOS can start up new instances of the worker, and give them write access to some components on entities.
This means that an [entity](#spatialos-entity) won’t necessarily stay on the same worker instance, even if that entity doesn’t move. SpatialOS may change which components on which entities a worker instance has write access to: so entities move “from” one worker instance to another. Even though the entity may be staying still, the worker instance’s [area of interest](#interest) is moving.
>Related pages:
>
> [Configuring load balancing (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/worker-configuration/loadbalancer-config)
### Node
>Not to be confused with [worker](#workers).

> A node refers to a single machine used by a [cloud deployment](#deployment). Its name indicates the role it plays in your deployment. You can see these on the advanced tab of your deployment details in the [Console](#console).

Reviewer: Line break needed above this

### Persistence
Most [entities](#spatialos-entities) in your [game world](#game-world) need to keep existing if you stop a game [deployment](#deployment) and start a new one. However,  some entities don’t need to keep existing from one deployment to another; you may want per-deployment player abilities and a per-deployment score, for example.

> To facilitate this continuation an entity’s state between deployments, there is a `persistence` component in the standard [schema](#schema) library. It’s optional, but all entities that you want to persist in the world must have this component. Persistence means that entities are saved into [snapshots](#snapshots).

Reviewer: Add line break above. Also, typo: "To facilitate this continuation an entity's state" -> something like "To facilitate this continuity in an entity's state"

>Related:
>

> >[The persistence component in the standard schema library](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/schema/standard-schema-library#persistence-optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>[The persistence component in the standard schema library (SpatialOS documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/schema/standard-schema-library#persistence-optional)
```

### Project definition file
This is a `spatialos.json` file which lives in your project’s root directory. 
It lists the SpatialOS [project name](#project-name) assigned to you by Improbable when you sign up as well as the version of [SpatialOS SDK](#spatialos-sdk) your project uses.

>Related
>
>[Project defnition file - `spatialos.json`](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.3/shared/reference/file-formats/spatialos-json)

### Queries
Queries allow [workers](#workers) to get information about the [world](#spatialos-world) outside the region they’re [interested in](#interest). For more information, see [queries (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#queries).

> Entity queries are useful if you need to get information about an entity at a particular time.
> If you need regular updates about an entity, use [streaming queries](#streaming-queries) instead.

### Read access
See [authority](#authority).

### Schema
The schema is where you define all the [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component) in your [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).

> You define your schema in `.schema` files that are written in [schemalang (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#schemalang). Schema files are stored in the `schema` folder in the root directory of your SpatialOS project.

Reviewer: add line break above

> SpatialOS uses the schema to generate code. You can use this generated code in your [workers](#workers) to interact with [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entity) in the SpatialOS world.

Reviewer: add line break above

> Entity queries are useful if you need to get information about an entity at a particular time.
> If you need regular updates about an entity, use [streaming queries](#streaming-queries) instead.

### Read access
See [authority](#authority).

### Schema
The schema is where you define all the [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component) in your [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).
You define your schema in `.schema` files that are written in [schemalang (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#schemalang). Schema files are stored in the `schema` folder in the root directory of your SpatialOS project.
SpatialOS uses the schema to generate code. You can use this generated code in your [workers](#workers) to interact with [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entity) in the SpatialOS world.

> Related:
>
> * [Introduction to schema (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/schema/introduction)
> * [Schema reference (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/schema/reference)

### `spatial` command-line tool (CLI)

> The `spatial` command-line tool (also known as the “CLI”) provides a set of commands that you use to interact with a [SpatialOS project](#spatialos-project). Among other things, you use it to [deploy](#deploying) your game (using [`spatial local launch` (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/spatial-cli/spatial-local-launch) or [`spatial cloud launch` (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/spatial-cli/spatial-cloud-launch)).You can run the CLI commands `spatial build` and `spatial local launch` from the [GDK toolbar]({{urlRoot}}/content/toolbars.md#spatialos-gdk-for-unreal-toolbar) in the Unreal Editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `spatial` command-line tool (also known as the “CLI”) provides a set of commands that you use to interact with a [SpatialOS project](#spatialos-project). Among other things, you use it to [deploy](#deploying) your game (using [`spatial local launch` (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/spatial-cli/spatial-local-launch) or [`spatial cloud launch` (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/spatial-cli/spatial-cloud-launch)). You can run the CLI commands `spatial build` and `spatial local launch` from the [GDK toolbar]({{urlRoot}}/content/toolbars.md#spatialos-gdk-for-unreal-toolbar) in the Unreal Editor.
```

Reviewer: ^ just added a necessary space

> Related:
> 
> * [An introduction to the `spatial` command-line tool (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/spatial-cli-introduction). Note that the GDK does not support any `spatial worker` commands.
> * [`spatial` reference (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/spatial-cli/spatial)

### SpatialOS component
> Not to be confused with [Unreal Components (Unreal documentation](https://docs.unrealengine.com/en-us/Programming/UnrealArchitecture/Actors/Components)

> A [SpatialOS entity](#spatialos-entity) is defined by a set of components. Common components in a game might be things like `Health`, `Position`, or `PlayerControls`. They're the storage mechanism for data about the [world](#spatialos-world) that you want to be shared between [workers](#worker).

Reviewer: Needs a line break above, as this is currently being pulled into the note. (Might need an actual <br/> as it looks like there's already a blank line)

Reviewer 2: Looks fine in improbadoc

Components can contain:

* [properties (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#property), which describe persistent values that change over time (for example, a property for a `Health` component could be “the current health value for this entity”.)
* [events (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#event), which are transient things that can happen to an entity (for example, `StartedWalking`)
* [commands (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#command) that another worker can call to ask the component to do something, optionally returning a value (for example, `Teleport`)

> A SpatialOS entity can have as many components as you like, but it must have at least [`Position` (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#position) and [`EntityAcl`](#access-control-list-acl). Most entities will have the [`Metadata` (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#metadata) component.

Reviewer: Needs line break above

### Configuration files
The configuration files contain information on how elements of your project must work. There are four configuration files:

* The [launch configuration file - `*.json`](#launch-configuration-file) contains the information that the “launch a deployment” commands use to use to  run a [deployment](#deployment).
* The [worker configuration file - `*.worker.json`](#worker-configuration-file) tells SpatialOS how to build, launch, and interact with [workers](#workers).
* The [project definition file - `spatialos.json`](#project-definition-file) 
* The [worker packages file - `spatialos_worker_packages.json`(SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/reference/file-formats/spatial-worker-packages)

### Command-line tool (CLI)
See [Spatial command-line tool (CLI)](#spatial-command-line-tool-cli).

### Deployment
When you want to try out your game, you need to deploy it. This means launching SpatialOS itself. SpatialOS sets up the [world](#spatialos-world) based on a [snapshot](#snapshot), then starts up the [server-workers](#server-workers) needed to run the world. 

There are two types of deployment: local and cloud.

> Local deployments allow you to start the SpatialOS [Runtime](#spatialos-runtime) locally to test changes quickly. Find out more about local deployments in the [SpatialOS documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/deploy/deploy-local.

Reviewer 2: Link is broken. Needs closing bracket.

### Node

>Not to be confused with [worker](#workers).

A node refers to a single machine used by a [cloud deployment](#deployment). Its name indicates the role it plays in your deployment. You can see these on the advanced tab of your deployment details in the [Console](#console).

### Persistence
Most [entities](#spatialos-entities) in your [game world](#game-world) need to keep existing if you stop a game [deployment](#deployment) and start a new one. However,  some entities don’t need to keep existing from one deployment to another; you may want per-deployment player abilities and a per-deployment score, for example.

To facilitate this continuity in an entity's state between deployments, there is a `persistence` component in the standard [schema](#schema) library. It’s optional, but all entities that you want to persist in the world must have this component. Persistence means that entities are saved into [snapshots](#snapshots).

>Related:
>
>[The persistence component in the standard schema library (SpatialOS documentation](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/schema/standard-schema-library#persistence-optional)

### Project name

> Your project name is a unique identifier for your game project as a deployment. It’s generated for you when you sign up for SpatialOS. It’s usually something like beta_someword_anotherword_000.

Reviewer 2: beta_someword_anotherword_000 -> `beta_someword_anotherword_000`

You must specify this name when you run a [cloud deployment](#deployment). 
Note that your project name is (usually) not the same as the name of the directory your project is in.

### Project definition file

> This is a `spatialos.json` file which lives in your project’s root directory. 

Reviewer 2: Uh, this lives in your `<ProjectRoot>/spatial/` directory. Not the project root.

It lists the SpatialOS [project name](#project-name) assigned to you by Improbable when you sign up as well as the version of [SpatialOS SDK](#spatialos-sdk) your project uses.

>Related
>
>[Project defnition file - `spatialos.json`](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.3/shared/reference/file-formats/spatialos-json)

> ### Queries

Reviewer 2: These are `entity queries`, not just `queries`

SpatialOS components are defined as files in your [schema](#schema).
[Entity access control lists](#access-control-list-acl) govern which workers can [read from](#read-access) or [write to](#write-access) each component on an entity.

> Related:
>
> * [Designing components (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/design/design-components)
> * [Component best practices (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/design/component-best-practices)
> * [Introduction to schema (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/schema/introduction)

### SpatialOS entity
All of the objects inside a [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world) are SpatialOS entities: they’re the basic building blocks of the world. Examples include players, NPCs, and objects in the world like trees. A SpatialOS entity approximates to an Unreal Actor.

> SpatialOS entities are made up of [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component), which store data associated with that entity.

Reviewer: Add line break above

> [Workers](#workers) can only see the entities they're [interested in](#interest).

Reviewer: Add line break above

> Related:
>

> > * [SpatialOS Concepts:Entities (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/concepts/world-entities-components#entities)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * [SpatialOS concepts: Entities (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/concepts/world-entities-components#entities)
```

> * [Designing SpatialOS entities (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/design/design-entities)

### SpatialOS Runtime

>Not to be confused with the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).

> Also sometimes just called “SpatialOS”. 

Reviewer: Again, this is getting pulled into the callout, so needs an enforced line break above it.

> A SpatialOS Runtime instance manages the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world) of each [deployment](#deployment) by storing all [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entity) and the current state of their [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-components). [Workers](#workers) interact with the SpatialOS Runtime to read and modify the components of an entity as well as send messages between workers.

Reviewer: needs line break above

Reviewer: Also, this sentence reads strangely. Maybe change "between workers" to "between each other"?

### SpatialOS SDK
This is a set of low-level tools in several programming languages which you can use to integrate your game project with SpatialOS. It consists of the Worker SDK (or “Worker module”) and Platform SDK (or “Platform module”). 

> If you are using Unreal, you do not need to use the Worker SDK or Platform SDK, however, you can use the Worker SDK to extend or compliment the functionality of the GDK for Unreal. 

Reviewer: Add line break above.

Also:

- Unreal -> the GDK for Unreal?
- compliment -> complement

> Related:
>
> Worker SDK: [Game development tools overview](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/dev-tools-intro)

> > [Platform SDK overciew](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.3/platform-sdk/introduction)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 
> [Platform SDK overview](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.3/platform-sdk/introduction)
```

Reviewer 2: This line is not being displayed at all. MD formatting needs work.

Reviewer: It's there, it's just been pulled up into the line above :( I never remember quite how MD formatting works. I've tired to add a line break (see my suggested change) but sometimes line breaks seem to require an actual `<br/>` and I can't recall exactly when/why

### SpatialOS world

>Not to be confused with the Unreal [game world](#game-world).

Also known as "the world".

> The world is a central concept in SpatialOS. It’s the canonical source of truth about your game. All the world's data is stored within [entities](#entity) - specifically, within their [components](#component).

Reviewer: Tons of line breaks needed in this entry - I won't comment them all!

SpatialOS manages the world, keeping track of all the entities and what state they’re in.
Changes to the world are made by [workers](#worker). Each worker has a view onto the world (the part of the world that they're [interested](#interest) in), and SpatialOS sends them updates when anything changes in that view.

> It's important to recognise this fundamental separation between the SpatialOS world and the view of that world that a worker [checks out](#check-out). Workers send updates to SpatialOS when they want to change the world: they don't control the canonical state of the world, they must use SpatialOS APIs to change it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to recognise this fundamental separation between the SpatialOS world and the view of that world that a worker [checks out](#check-out). Workers send updates to SpatialOS when they want to change the world: they don't control the canonical state of the world; they must use SpatialOS APIs to change it.
```

### Snapshot
A snapshot is a representation of the state of a [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world) at a given point in time. It stores each [persistent](#persistence) [SpatialOS entity](#spatialos-entity) and the values of their [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component)' [properties (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#property).

> You'll use a snapshot as the starting point (using an an “initial snapshot”) for your [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world) when you [deploy your game](#deployment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You use a snapshot as the starting point (using an an “initial snapshot”) for your [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world) when you [deploy your game](#deployment).
```

Also add line break above

> Related:
> 

> > * [How to generate a snapshot]({{urlRoot}}/content/generating-a-snapshot) (GDK documentation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * [How to generate a snapshot]({{urlRoot}}/content/generating-a-snapshot)
```
don't think we need to specify "GDK documentation"

> * [Snapshots (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/operate/snapshots)

### Streaming queries
Streaming queries allow workers to get information about the [world](#spatialos-world) outside the region they’re [interested in](#interest), so that they know about entities that they don’t have checked out (for example, entities that are far away, or that don’t have a physical position).

> Streaming queries are useful if you need to get information about an entity periodically - for example, so that a player can see and interact with it.

> > If you just need information about an entity at one particular time, use [queries](#queries) instead.

Reviewer 2: `use [queries](#queries) instead.` 
This should be `use [entity queries](#queries) instead.`

### Workers

> The [SpatialOS Runtime](#spatialos-runtime) manages the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world): it keeps track of all the [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entity) and their

Reviewer: Line breaks needed in this section

[SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component). But on its own, it doesn’t make any changes to the world.
Workers are programs that connect to a SpatialOS world. They perform the computation associated with a world: they can read what’s happening, watch for changes, and make changes of their own.
There are two types of workers; server-workers and client-workers. 

> A server-worker approximates to a server in native Unreal networking but unlike unreal networking, in SpatialOS, you have have more than one server-worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A server-worker approximates to a server in native Unreal networking but, unlike Unreal networking, in SpatialOS you can have have more than one server-worker.
```

* **Server-worker**<br/>

>     <br/>A server-worker is a [worker](#workers) whose lifecycle is managed by SpatialOS. When running a [deployment](#deployment), the SpatialOS Runtime starts and stops server-workers based on your chosen [load balancing (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#load-balancing) configuration.

Reviewer: Not sure this enforced `<br/><br/>` break is needed here - we don't need a blank line between the bullet point and this para.

>     You usually set up server-workers to with implement game logic and physics simulation. You can have one server-worker connected to your [deployment](#deployment), or dozens, depending on the size and complexity of your [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).

Reviewer: typo - "to with implement"

 but not sure what this is meant to say - maybe just "to implement"?

    If you run a [local deployment](#deployment), the server-workers run on your development computer. If you run a [cloud deployment](#deployment), the server-workers run in the cloud.
* **Client-worker**<br/>

    > Not to be confused with [Game client](#game-client).

>     While the lifecycle of a server-worker is managed by the SpatialOS Runtime, the lifecycle of a client-worker is managed by the game client.

Reviewer: Needs line break above to stop it being pulled into the callout

>     You usually set up client-workers to visualize what’s happening in the [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world). They also deal with player input.

Reviewer: line break needed above

>     > Related:

Reviewer: line break needed above

    >
    > * [External worker (client-worker) launch configuration (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/worker-configuration/launch-configuration#external-worker-launch-configuration)

**More about workers**</br>

> In order to achieve huge scale, SpatialOS divides up the SpatialOS entities in the world between workers, balancing the work so none of them are overloaded. For each SpatialOS entity in the world, it decides which worker should have [write access](#authority) to each SpatialOS component on the SpatialOS entity. To prevent multiple workers writing to a component at the same time, only one worker at a time can have write access to a SpatialOS component.

Reviewer: line breaks needed throughout

As the world changes over time, the position of SpatialOS entities and the amount of updates associated with them changes. Server-workers report back to SpatialOS how much load they're under, and SpatialOS adjusts which workers have write access to components on which SpatialOS entities. SpatialOS then starts up new workers when needed. This is [load balancing (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/worker-configuration/loadbalancer-config).

> Around the SpatialOS entities which they have write access to, every worker has an area of the world they are [interested in] (#interest).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Around the SpatialOS entities which they have write access to, every worker has an area of the world they are [interested in](#interest).
```

Reviewer 2: Link is broken.

> Related:
>
> * [Concepts: Workers and load balancing (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/concepts/workers-load-balancing)

### Worker configuration
The worker configuration is how you set up your workers. It is represented in the worker configuration file.
See [workers](#workers) and [worker configuration file](#worker-configuration-file).

### Worker configuration file

> First, see [workers](#workers).

Each worker needs a worker configuration file. This file tells SpatialOS how to build, launch, and interact with the workers.
The file’s name must be `spatialos.<worker_type>.worker.json`: for example, `spatialos.MyWorkerType.worker.json`.
Once you’ve chosen a label for the worker type (for example, myWorkerType), you use this exact label consistently throughout your project to identify this worker type.

> Related:
>
>[Worker configuration file `worker.json` (SpatialOS documenation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/worker-configuration/worker-configuration)

### Worker types

> > First, see [workers](#workers).

Reviewer: need to sort line breaks here too, and below

> Entity queries are useful if you need to get information about an entity at a particular time.
> If you need regular updates about an entity, use [streaming queries](#streaming-queries) instead.

### Read access
See [authority](#authority).

### Schema
The schema is where you define all the [SpatialOS components](#spatialos-component) in your [SpatialOS world](#spatialos-world).

You define your schema in `.schema` files that are written in [schemalang (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/glossary#schemalang). Schema files are stored in the `schema` folder in the root directory of your SpatialOS project.

SpatialOS uses the schema to generate code. You can use this generated code in your [workers](#workers) to interact with [SpatialOS entities](#spatialos-entity) in the SpatialOS world.

> Related:
>
> * [Introduction to schema (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/schema/introduction)
> * [Schema reference (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/schema/reference)

### `spatial` command-line tool (CLI)

> The `spatial` command-line tool (also known as the “CLI”) provides a set of commands that you use to interact with a [SpatialOS project](#spatialos-project). Among other things, you use it to [deploy](#deploying) your game (using [`spatial local launch` (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/spatial-cli/spatial-local-launch) or [`spatial cloud launch` (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/spatial-cli/spatial-cloud-launch)). You can run the CLI commands `spatial build` and `spatial local launch` from the [GDK toolbar]({{urlRoot}}/content/toolbars.md#spatialos-gdk-for-unreal-toolbar) in the Unreal Editor.

Reviewer 3: We don't encourage the `spatial build` path, we should remove it.

> Related:
> 
> * [An introduction to the `spatial` command-line tool (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/spatial-cli-introduction). Note that the GDK does not support any `spatial worker` commands.
> * [`spatial` reference (SpatialOS documentation)](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/latest/shared/spatial-cli/spatial)

### SpatialOS component

> > Not to be confused with [Unreal Components (Unreal documentation](https://docs.unrealengine.com/en-us/Programming/UnrealArchitecture/Actors/Components)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> Not to be confused with [Unreal Actor Components (Unreal documentation](https://docs.unrealengine.com/en-us/Programming/UnrealArchitecture/Actors/Components)
```
